Document GHC-54540 and GHC-93557 (#425)
haskellfoundation/error-message-index: message-index/messages/GHC-93557/index.md

---
title: Illegal typeclass instance
summary: Illegal typeclass instance
severity: error
introduced: 9.8.1
---

> Using the language version Haskell2010, only certain types are allowed as instances of a typeclass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the language version Haskell 2010, only certain types are allowed as instances of a type class.
```

> Every typeclass instance in Haskell2010 has the following form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every type class instance in Haskell2010 has the following form:
```

```
instance C t where
````
Here, `C` is the name of a typeclass, such as `Eq`, `Show` or `Read`, and `t` is a type.
But only a subset of types `t` is allowed to appear in typeclass instances.

> These types must all have the form `T` or `T a ... b`, where `T` has to be the name of a type introduced by a data or newtype declaration, and the arguments `a` to `b` all have to be type variables.

Reviewer: I think an example here would be nice - `Maybe a` has `Maybe` for `T`, `Int` has `Int` for `T`, and the type variable `a` doesn't match.
